samples: bluetooth: Add LE Connection Subrating sample (#16863)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/subrating/README.rst

.. _ble_subrating:

Bluetooth: Connection Subrating
###############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Bluetooth® Connection Subrating sample showcases the effect of the LE Connection Subrating feature on the duty cycle of a connection.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

> You can use any two of the development kits mentioned above and mix different development kits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use any combination of the development kits mentioned above in your testing setup.
```

Additionally, the sample requires a connection to a computer with a serial terminal for each of the development kits.

Overview
********

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This sample transmits data in bursts between two development kits to measure the transmission latency using different subrating parameters.

```

> Subrating provides a mechanism for indicating that only a specific subset of connection events are to be actively used by the connected devices, with the radio not being used in other connection events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subrating provides a mechanism for indicating that only a specific subset of connection events can actively used by the connected devices, when the radio not being used in other connection events.
```
Is this still correct? Just guessing here

Author: Reworded `are to` as `will be` to keep the wording a bit stricter per spec, but I left `with` as I think the meaning changes slightly otherwise, what do you think?

> Connection events are actively used when the peripheral listens to the event or sends data in the event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connection events are actively used when the peripheral listens for an event or sends data contained in the event.
```
Just guessing here

Author: In this case the peripheral will listen to specific events as determined by the subrate configuration and send its data in them, I think the more specific wording makes it a bit clearer. I replaced `to` with `for`, does the rest seem ok to you?

A subrated connection can therefore have a short ACL connection interval but still exhibit a low duty cycle so that power is conserved.

> When a higher bandwidth is needed, the subrate request procedure allows connection parameter updates to be made with minimal delay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a higher bandwidth is needed, the subrate request procedure allows for connection parameter updates to be made with minimal delay.
```

> 
> This sample transmits data in bursts between two development kits to measure the transmission latency using different subrating parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To measure the transmission latency from application layers, a GATT Latency service `BT_UUID_LATENCY` is included to compute the time spent.
When the sender writes its timestamp to the `BT_UUID_LATENC_CHAR` characteristic of the receiver, the Latency service of the receiver will automatically reply back.
Whenever the sender receives a response, it will use its current time and the corresponding timestamp written before to estimate the round-trip time (RTT) of a writing characteristic procedure (see `Bluetooth Core Specification`_: Vol 3, Part F, 3.4.5 Writing attributes).

.. list-table:: GATT Attributes
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Type
     - UUID
     - Property
   * - Primary service
     - BT_UUID_LATENCY
     - Read only
   * - Characteristic
     - BT_UUID_LATENCY_CHAR
     - BT_GATT_CHRC_WRITE, BT_GATT_PERM_WRITE

By default, the following connection parameters are used:

.. list-table:: Default parameter values
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Parameter
     - Value
   * - Connection interval
     - 8 units (10 ms)
   * - Subrate factor
     - 1 or 10
   * - Continuation number
     - 0 or 1

Building and running

> ********************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
********************

```

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/subrating`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to both development kits, test it by performing the following steps:

1. Connect to both kits with a terminal emulator (for example, `nRF Connect Serial Terminal`_).
   See :ref:`test_and_optimize` for the required settings and steps.
#. Reset both kits.

> #. In one of the terminal emulators, type "c" to start the application on the connected board in the central role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. In one of the terminal emulators, type ``c`` to start the application on the connected board in the central role.
```

> #. In the other terminal emulator, type "p" to start the application in the peripheral role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. In the other terminal emulator, type ``p`` to start the application in the peripheral role.
```

#. Observe that the kits establish a connection.
#. The sample will alternate between the following configurations:

>    - No subrating
>    - Subrating with a factor of 10, continuation number 0
>    - Subrating with a factor of 10, continuation number 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * No subrating
   * Subrating with a factor of 10, continuation number 0
   * Subrating with a factor of 10, continuation number 1
```

#. Observe the difference in the duty cycle of the connection:

>    - With no subrating, the link will always use a fast connection interval of 10ms.
>    - With a subrate factor of 10 and no continuation events, the link will always use a slower effective connection interval of 100ms.
>    - With a subrate factor of 10 and one continuation event, the link will use a fast connection interval of 10ms when data needs to be sent, and switch to a low effective connection interval of 100ms otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * With no subrating, the link will always use a fast connection interval of 10ms.
   * With a subrate factor of 10 and no continuation events, the link will always use a slower effective connection interval of 100ms.
   * With a subrate factor of 10 and one continuation event, the link will use a fast connection interval of 10ms when data needs to be sent, and switch to a low effective connection interval of 100ms otherwise.
```

The sample demonstrates the ability for the peripheral to request changes to the subrating parameters.
This behavior can be changed by setting `#define SUBRATE_INITIATOR_ROLE` to `BT_CONN_ROLE_CENTRAL` in the sample.

Sample output

> =============

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-------------
```

> The result should look similar to the following output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result should look similar to the following output:
```

> - For the central::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For the central::
```

    *** Booting nRF Connect SDK v2.7.99-9539f0a1a59b ***
    *** Using Zephyr OS v3.6.99-766b306bcbe8 ***
    Starting Bluetooth Subrating example
    I: SoftDevice Controller build revision:
    I: 0f 3f c8 4a 7e 8d b6 7a |.?.J~..z
    I: 64 7f 04 47 8b 3c 4b ae |d..G.<K.
    I: 95 16 0d 96             |....
    I: HW Platform: Nordic Semiconductor (0x0002)
    I: HW Variant: nRF52x (0x0002)
    I: Firmware: Standard Bluetooth controller (0x00) Version 15.51263 Build 3062726218
    I: Identity: EA:9C:4D:3A:2F:A8 (random)
    I: HCI: version 5.4 (0x0d) revision 0x1224, manufacturer 0x0059
    I: LMP: version 5.4 (0x0d) subver 0x1224
    Bluetooth initialized
    Choose device role - type c (central) or p (peripheral):
    Central. Starting scanning
    Scanning successfully started
    Filters matched. Address: FD:AA:B8:5A:36:E2 (random) connectable: 1
    Connected as central
    Service discovery completed
    Subrate changed. Subrate Factor: 10, Continuation number: 0
    Subrate changed. Subrate Factor: 10, Continuation number: 1
    Subrate changed. Subrate Factor: 1, Continuation number: 0

> - For the peripheral::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For the peripheral::
```

    Simulating burst of data.
    Response round-trip time: 12451 us
    Response round-trip time: 16845 us
    Response round-trip time: 16815 us
    Response round-trip time: 16845 us
    Response round-trip time: 16845 us
    Response round-trip time: 16876 us
    Response round-trip time: 16845 us
    Response round-trip time: 16845 us
    Response round-trip time: 16876 us
    Response round-trip time: 16845 us

Dependencies
*************

This sample uses the following |NCS| libraries:

* :ref:`latency_readme`
* :ref:`latency_client_readme`

This sample uses the following `sdk-nrfxlib`_ libraries:

* :ref:`nrfxlib:softdevice_controller`

In addition, it uses the following Zephyr libraries:

* :file:`include/console.h`
* :ref:`zephyr:kernel_api`:

  * :file:`include/kernel.h`

* :file:`include/sys/printk.h`
* :file:`include/zephyr/types.h`
* :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_api`:

  * :file:`include/bluetooth/bluetooth.h`
  * :file:`include/bluetooth/conn.h`
  * :file:`include/bluetooth/gatt.h`
  * :file:`include/bluetooth/hci.h`
  * :file:`include/bluetooth/uuid.h`
  * :file:`include/bluetooth/scan.h`
  * :file:`include/bluetooth/gatt_dm.h`

> References

Reviewer: I'd move the references chapter before the dependencies one

***********

For more information about LE Connection Subrating, see the following chapters of the `Bluetooth Core Specification`_:

* Vol 6, Part B, 5.1.19 Connection Subrate Update procedure

> * Vol 6, Part B, 5.1.20 Connection Subrate Request procedure

Reviewer 2: Might be good to reference `4.5.1 Connection events` as this has some nice subrating diagrams
